Effective engineer 

In the ensuing years, I’ve come to learn that working more hours isn’t the
most effective way to increase output. In fact, working too many hours leads to
decreased productivity and burnout. Output may even turn out to be negative
when it’s necessary to repair the mistakes made by overworked and fatigued
engineers.

More important for effectiveness, but often overlooked by engineers, are the
meta-skills. These skills help you determine where to focus your time and en-
ergy so that more of your effort translates into impact.

leverage is the return on investment (ROI) for the effort that’s
put in ( impact produced / time invested ) 

Moreover, that 1% time investment can have an outsized influence on the
productivity and effectiveness of the other 99% of work hours

Walk-
ing through debugging tools could drastically reduce development time for
every new feature. Reviewing code early and thoroughly to catch common er-
rors could remove the need to re-address similar issues later and prevent bad
habits from forming. Teaching a new hire how to prioritize different projects to
complete or skills to learn could easily increase his productivity

Former Intel CEO Andrew Grove ex-
plains that by definition, your overall leverage—the amount of value that you
produce per unit time—can only be increased in three ways:
1. By reducing the time it takes to complete a certain activity.
2. By increasing the output of a particular activity.
3. By shifting to higher-leverage activities.

Key Takeaways
• Use leverage to measure your engineering effectiveness. Fo-
cus on what generates the highest return on investment for
your time spent.
• Systematically increase the leverage of your time. Find ways
to get an activity done more quickly, to increase the impact of
an activity, or to shift to activities with higher leverage.
• Focus your effort on leverage points. Time is your most lim-
ited asset. Identify the habits that produce disproportionately
high impact for the time you invest.

Key Takeaways
• Own your story. Focus on changes that are within your sphere
of influence rather than wasting energy on blaming the parts
that you can’t control. View failures and challenges through a
growth mindset, and see them as opportunities to learn.
• Don’t shortchange your learning rate. Learning compounds
like interest. The more you learn, the easier it is to apply prior
insights and lessons to learn new things. Optimize for learning,
particularly early in your career, and you’ll be best prepared for
the opportunities that come your way.
• Find work environments that can sustain your growth. Inter-
view the people at the team or company you’re considering.
Find out what opportunities they provide for onboarding and
mentoring, how transparent they are internally, how fast they
move, what your prospective co-workers are like, and how
much autonomy you’ll have.
• Capitalize on opportunities at work to improve your technical
skills. Learn from your best co-workers. Study their code and
their code reviews. Dive into any available educational material
provided by your company, and look into classes or books that
your workplace might be willing to subsidize.
• Locate learning opportunities outside of the workplace. Chal-
lenge yourself to become better by just 1% a day. Not all of
your learning will necessarily relate to engineering skills, but
being a happier and better learner will help you become a
more effective engineer in the long run.













